Add private channel obfuscation docs (#8454)
discord/discord-api-docs: developers/resources/channel.mdx

| REQUIRE_TAG                 | `1 << 4`  | whether a tag is required to be specified when creating a thread in a `GUILD_FORUM` or a `GUILD_MEDIA` channel. Tags are specified in the `applied_tags` field.                                                                                                                                         |
| HIDE_MEDIA_DOWNLOAD_OPTIONS | `1 << 15` | when set hides the embedded media download options. Available only for media channels                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| CHANNEL_OBFUSCATED          | `1 << 17` | this channel's metadata has been obfuscated because the current user cannot view it. Only ever set on channels received over the [Gateway](/developers/events/gateway); the HTTP API never sets this flag. See [Obfuscated Channels](/developers/resources/channel#channel-object-obfuscated-channels). |

<ManualAnchor id="channel-object-obfuscated-channels" />
###### Obfuscated Channels

> Over the [Gateway](/developers/events/gateway), a client will receive a channel object with obfuscated metadata for guild channels it does not have `VIEW_CHANNEL` permission for (and for voice channels it is not currently connected to), instead of the channel being omitted. Currently, this will only be true for clients that opt into the `CHANNEL_OBFUSCATION` [gateway capability](/developers/events/gateway-events#identify-gateway-capabilities) for testing, but starting October 12th 2026 all clients will recieve obfuscated channels for channels it does not have `VIEW_CHANNEL` permission for.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Over the [Gateway](/developers/events/gateway), a client will receive a channel object with obfuscated metadata for guild channels it does not have permission to view. "Permission to view" is mostly determined by having the `VIEW_CHANNEL` permission on a channel, or by being connected to a voice channel. Channel categories are always viewable if any of their children channels are viewable. Currently, this will only be true for clients that opt into the `CHANNEL_OBFUSCATION` [gateway capability](/developers/events/gateway-events#identify-gateway-capabilities) for testing, but starting October 12th 2026 all clients will recieve obfuscated channels for channels it does not have `VIEW_CHANNEL` permission for.
```

not necesarily this change verbatim, but I think the these are roughly the important details to include

Author: I standardized how I talk about permission to view and the warning to try to make this more clear across the whole PR. When we set this live we can remove each of those warnings and everything outside of them will hold true.

| REQUIRE_TAG                 | `1 << 4`  | whether a tag is required to be specified when creating a thread in a `GUILD_FORUM` or a `GUILD_MEDIA` channel. Tags are specified in the `applied_tags` field.                                                                                                                                         |
| HIDE_MEDIA_DOWNLOAD_OPTIONS | `1 << 15` | when set hides the embedded media download options. Available only for media channels                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| CHANNEL_OBFUSCATED          | `1 << 17` | this channel's metadata has been obfuscated because the current user cannot view it. Only ever set on channels received over the [Gateway](/developers/events/gateway); the HTTP API never sets this flag. See [Obfuscated Channels](/developers/resources/channel#channel-object-obfuscated-channels). |

<ManualAnchor id="channel-object-obfuscated-channels" />
###### Obfuscated Channels

> Over the [Gateway](/developers/events/gateway), a client will receive a channel object with obfuscated metadata for guild channels it does not have permission to view. Permission to view a channel is defined by having `VIEW_CHANNEL` permission on a channel or by being connected to a voice channel. Channel categories are viewable if any of their children channels are viewable.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Over the [Gateway](/developers/events/gateway), a client will receive a channel object with obfuscated metadata for guild channels it does not have permission to view. Permission to view a channel is defined by having `VIEW_CHANNEL` permission on a channel or by being connected to a voice channel. Channel categories are viewable if any of their child channels are viewable.
```

> Over the [Gateway](/developers/events/gateway), a client will receive a channel object with obfuscated metadata for guild channels it does not have permission to view. Permission to view a channel is defined by having `VIEW_CHANNEL` permission on a channel or by being connected to a voice a channel. Channel categories are viewable if any of their children channels are viewable.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Over the [Gateway](/developers/events/gateway), a client will receive a channel object with obfuscated metadata for guild channels it does not have permission to view. Permission to view a channel is defined by having `VIEW_CHANNEL` permission on a channel or by being connected to a voice channel. Channel categories are viewable if any of their children channels are viewable.
```

Author: 🤦 thank you

| PINNED                      | `1 << 1`  | this thread is pinned to the top of its parent `GUILD_FORUM` or `GUILD_MEDIA` channel                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| REQUIRE_TAG                 | `1 << 4`  | whether a tag is required to be specified when creating a thread in a `GUILD_FORUM` or a `GUILD_MEDIA` channel. Tags are specified in the `applied_tags` field.                                                                                                                                        |
| HIDE_MEDIA_DOWNLOAD_OPTIONS | `1 << 15` | when set hides the embedded media download options. Available only for media channels                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |

> | CHANNEL_OBFUSCATED          | `1 << 17` | this channel's metadata has been obfuscated because the current app cannot view it. Only ever set on channels received over the [Gateway](/developers/events/gateway); the HTTP API never sets this flag. See [Obfuscated Channels](/developers/resources/channel#channel-object-obfuscated-channels). |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| CHANNEL_OBFUSCATED          | `1 << 17` | this channel's metadata has been obfuscated because the current user cannot view it. Only ever set on channels received over the [Gateway](/developers/events/gateway); the HTTP API never sets this flag. See [Obfuscated Channels](/developers/resources/channel#channel-object-obfuscated-channels). |
```

<ManualAnchor id="channel-object-obfuscated-channels" />
###### Obfuscated Channels

> Over the [Gateway](/developers/events/gateway), an app that has opted into the `CHANNEL_OBFUSCATION` [gateway capability](/developers/events/gateway-events#identify-gateway-capabilities) will still receive a channel object for guild channels it does not have `VIEW_CHANNEL` permission for (and for voice channels it is not currently connected to), instead of the channel being omitted. Before the object is sent, most of its metadata is redacted.

Reviewer: Few nits here:
- "bot" or "client" (depending on context), not "app"
- I'd avoid the term 'redacted' in these docs, as the fields will not actually be removed. obfuscated is good
- Would be better to frame this as "will receive channels you dont have access to as obfuscated" instead of "will 'still' receive, but its obfuscated"
- This makes it sound like this behavior is specific to the capability. i might remove that and instead have an info section thats like "this applies to clients that have opted into this behavior via capability, or all clients after <date>"

Obfuscated channels are dispatched through the normal [Channel Create](/developers/events/gateway-events#channel-create) and [Channel Update](/developers/events/gateway-events#channel-update) gateway events, including within the channel list of a [Guild Create](/developers/events/gateway-events#guild-create) event.

To reliably detect whether a channel object has been obfuscated, check whether its `flags` field has the `CHANNEL_OBFUSCATED` [channel flag](/developers/resources/channel#channel-object-channel-flags) (`1 << 17`) set. Do not rely on inspecting `name` or any other redacted field.

<Info>

> `id`, `type`, and `position` won't be redacted, even on an obfuscated channel. Your app can rely on their real values to reorder channels or identify and report that it is missing permissions. Other fields should not be relied on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`id` and `type` will not be obfuscated, even on an obfuscated channel. Other fields should not be relied on.
```

Author: Will update this based on the convo yall had below

</Info>

> When an app regains visibility into a previously obfuscated channel (for example, a permission overwrite change, a change to the app's roles, a change to a role's permissions, or the app joining a voice channel it previously couldn't see), the Gateway dispatches a [Channel Update](/developers/events/gateway-events#channel-update) event containing the full, unobfuscated channel data. If the channel's parent category was also obfuscated (because the app couldn't see it either), that category also receives a Channel Update event with its full, unobfuscated data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a bot user regains visibility into a previously obfuscated channel (for example, a permission overwrite change, a change to the bot user's roles, a change to a role's permissions, or the bot user joining a voice channel it previously couldn't see), the Gateway dispatches a [Channel Update](/developers/events/gateway-events#channel-update) event containing the full, unobfuscated channel data. If the channel's parent category was also obfuscated (because the bot user couldn't see it either), that category also receives a Channel Update event with its full, unobfuscated data.
```

[Interactions](/developers/interactions/receiving-and-responding) are built through a separate path that does not apply obfuscation, so an app always receives full channel data in interaction payloads for channels it can act on.

<Tip>
To build a good experience around obfuscated channels:

> - Check the `CHANNEL_OBFUSCATED` flag before rendering a channel's `name` or other redacted metadata in any UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Check the `CHANNEL_OBFUSCATED` flag before rendering a channel's `name` or other obfuscated metadata in any UI.
```

- Give users a way to see which channels your app needs access to but currently can't see, such as a "channels this bot can't access" report or command.

> - When onboarding fails because a channel is hidden, point the user at the exact permission to grant (`VIEW_CHANNEL` on the affected channel or its parent category)

Reviewer: Im not sure we should include these, I think its kinda hard to action on without concrete understanding of the use case. Maybe something about using channel mentions to render channels so the viewing user might see them? idk

Author: Yeah that's fair, this feels like something we can bring up in the announce thread or in convos instead
